.github/prompts/tf.speckit-tester.prompt.md, before:

---
name: github-speckit-tester
description: Test harness for executing Speckit workflows non-interactively using subagents. Use when you need to test the complete Speckit pipeline (Phase 0 → Phase 3) or individual phases, validate artifact generation across all commands, automate testing of specification-to-implementation workflows, or verify cross-phase consistency. This skill orchestrates the execution of all Speckit commands in order without user intervention.
---

# GitHub Speckit Tester

A comprehensive test harness for validating the Speckit workflow system by executing all phases non-interactively using subagents. After each phase clear the context using /clear

## Overview

This skill provides automated testing capabilities for the complete Speckit pipeline, executing all commands in sequence from specification to implementation without requiring user interaction.

## Test Scenario
Please read the following file to load the test scenario:
#file: github/test-scenarios/${input:scenario}


## Core Concepts

### Non-Interactive Execution

All Speckit commands must be executed without user intervention:
- Automatic decision-making for clarifications
- Default selections for ambiguous choices
- Automated validation and progression through phases
- Error handling and recovery without user input
- always create a new feature branch from dev

### Subagent Orchestration

The test harness uses subagents to:
- Execute each phase independently
- Isolate phase execution for better debugging
- Parallelize independent phases when possible
- Maintain clean execution context per phase

Document start time and end time, totals execution time, and tokens consumed inclusive of all subagents
The custom agents are available in the .github/agents/ directory
The slash command prompts are available in the .github/prompts/ directory

### Execution Workflow

1. Prerequisites: Validate environment and credentials by running `.specify/scripts/bash/validate-env.sh`
2. Run `/speckit.specify` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.specify.prompt.md
3. Run `/speckit.clarify` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.clarify.prompt.md
4. Run `/speckit.checklist` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.checklist.prompt.md
5. Run `/speckit.plan` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.plan.prompt.md
6. Run `/review.tf-design` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/review.tf-design.prompt.md
7. Run `/speckit.tasks` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.tasks.prompt.md
8. Run `/speckit.analyze` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.analyze.prompt.md
9. Run `/speckit.implement` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.implement.prompt.md
10. Deploy to HCP Terraform ephemeral workspace to test and validate the generated Terraform code
11. Run `/report.tf-deployment` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/report.tf-deployment.prompt.md
12. Destroy resources and cleanup, delete ephemeral workspace

Commit message:

fix: Emphasize non-interactive execution requirement in workflow steps

.github/prompts/tf.speckit-tester.prompt.md, after:

---
name: github-speckit-tester
description: Test harness for executing Speckit workflows non-interactively using subagents. Use when you need to test the complete Speckit pipeline (Phase 0 → Phase 3) or individual phases, validate artifact generation across all commands, automate testing of specification-to-implementation workflows, or verify cross-phase consistency. This skill orchestrates the execution of all Speckit commands in order without user intervention.
---

# GitHub Speckit Tester

A comprehensive test harness for validating the Speckit workflow system by executing all phases non-interactively using subagents. After each phase clear the context using /clear

## Overview

This skill provides automated testing capabilities for the complete Speckit pipeline, executing all commands in sequence from specification to implementation without requiring user interaction.

## Test Scenario
Please read the following file to load the test scenario:
#file: github/test-scenarios/${input:scenario}


## Core Concepts

### Non-Interactive Execution

All Speckit commands must be executed without user intervention:
- Automatic decision-making for clarifications
- Default selections for ambiguous choices
- Automated validation and progression through phases
- Error handling and recovery without user input
- always create a new feature branch from dev

### Subagent Orchestration

The test harness uses subagents to:
- Execute each phase independently
- Isolate phase execution for better debugging
- Parallelize independent phases when possible
- Maintain clean execution context per phase

Document start time and end time, totals execution time, and tokens consumed inclusive of all subagents
The custom agents are available in the .github/agents/ directory
The slash command prompts are available in the .github/prompts/ directory

### Execution Workflow

**CRITICAL: All steps below must be executed in NON-INTERACTIVE MODE in the specified sequence. No action should be deferred. Each step must start automatically without requiring user confirmation upon completion of the previous step.**

1. Prerequisites: Validate environment and credentials by running `.specify/scripts/bash/validate-env.sh`
2. Run `/speckit.specify` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.specify.prompt.md
3. Run `/speckit.clarify` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.clarify.prompt.md
4. Run `/speckit.checklist` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.checklist.prompt.md
5. Run `/speckit.plan` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.plan.prompt.md
6. Run `/review.tf-design` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/review.tf-design.prompt.md
7. Run `/speckit.tasks` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.tasks.prompt.md
8. Run `/speckit.analyze` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.analyze.prompt.md
9. Run `/speckit.implement` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/speckit.implement.prompt.md
10. Deploy to HCP Terraform ephemeral workspace to test and validate the generated Terraform code
11. Run `/report.tf-deployment` prompt as per #file: .github/prompts/report.tf-deployment.prompt.md
12. Destroy resources and cleanup, delete ephemeral workspace
